The next segment we want to
cover is interdependence.
This is another challenge that you
face as you do your talent analytics.
So much of our work depends on
the impact of other people.
We rarely get to evaluate
an employee in isolation.
Rarely is our work done in isolation.
We are humbly dependent on other people,
so this poses a big challenge for
talent analytics where mostly
you're trying to infer
the quality of an individual despite the
fact that he or she works among a team.
I had a conversation recently with
an executive who works with Google and
we were talking about exactly this
challenge, and she got really mad she says
it makes me so mad when people over
emphasize individual contributions.
Practically everything we
do is with other people.
If so and so left or so
and so left I'd quit.
I couldn't do my job.
She was really worked up.
I was struck by how
quickly she got worked up.
And this is a person who not
only performs very well,
but her job is to help people
make these evaluations better.
And she appreciates, as well as
anybody I know, how difficult it is to
parse the individual contribution,
from the greater team impact.
So interdependence is an important
thing to keep your eye on
as you try to make sense of the numbers.
So, a great study by Boris Groysberg
at Harvard from a few years
ago demonstrates this.
He looked at investment analysts,
in particular rock-star
investment analysts and their performance
as they moved from one firm to another.
So this is something that
happens in that industry.
An individual will rise and gain
a reputation as having a particularly good
bead on an industry or a set of
companies and build up some equity, and
then be poached by another organization,
and they move across organizations.
The nice thing about this
setting is that we can track
analysts forecasts against what actually
happens and we can do this over years.
And so we can evaluate how they
perform in one organization and
how they subsequently perform
in other organizations.
So Groysberg goes in, saves a view years
of this,1988 through 1996 he looks at
over a 1,000 star analysts and their
performance at 78 different investment
banks, as they rose up in one, and
then moved or didn't move to another.
He defines star as any analyst
who was ranked by the magazine
Institutional Investor.
This magazine puts out annual
surveys on the best in the industry,
best analyst in the industry.
And everyone in the industry takes
these ratings very seriously and
those who do well in these ratings
are recognized as star analysts and
often those are exactly the ones who
get the offers to move to new firms.
So Groysberg goes in and
finds out what happens when
these star analysts move firms?
This is what he found.
He finds that performance plummets by
an average of 46% in the first year and
even over five years it's about
20% below where they started.
So on average, these guys not only
dip dramatically in the first year,
which you might expect a little bit
of an adjustment cost, they never get
back to their level that they were at
when they were at the original firm.
So what happens here?
Does the star lose intelligence?
Does the star forget the lessons
of their experience overnight, and
never get them back?
It's unlikely, very unlikely
that this is what's going on.
What goes on is,
they were part of a team before.
They had researchers surrounding them,
all the institutional resources
that were available to them and they
understood how to tap into, are gone now.
And it's really tough to replicate that.
Moreover, when we assess the ability and
the performance of that individual
analyst, we think of it
as being the analyst.
We don't consider the team
they're surrounded by.
We don't consider the institution
they're embedded in.
We think it's them, we pay them
a lot to come work for our firm, and
then we find out they were only
one part of a broader machine.
The impact, unfortunately, is broader than
just the income of that particular group.
The impact affects the group
that brings them in.
So from a head of research at one of
these firms, the research head says,
I painfully learned that hiring a star
analyst resembles an organ transplant.
First, the new body can reject
the prized organ that operated so
well inside another body.
On some occasions, the new organ hurts
healthy parts of the body by demanding
a disproportionate blood supply other
parts of the body start to resent it,
ache, and demand attention,
or threaten to stop working.
You should think about it very
carefully before you do a transplant
to a healthy body.
You could get lucky, but success is rare.
So this is an example from
the financial services industry,
important example I believe.
Stakes are high,
performance is quite observable.
It's kind of a best case for
getting this right.
And they don't seem to
be getting it right.
We observe it in other countries.
Lord knows we observe it
in professional sports.
But this is systematic of the general
challenge of interdependence.
When you're trying to
analyze how good somebody is,
how successful they've been,
you've got to somehow
parse the individual performance
from the team and it's difficult.
The main thing is to be careful,
to not over attribute.
Individual performance is something that
is fundamentally at the group level.
So this is, one prescription would be,
as much as possible,
make your performance
evaluations at the group level.
And,convention is to make these
at the individual level, but
as we gain greater and greater
appreciation for how interdependent
performance is the performance evaluation
should migrate more to the group level.
We also might think about you're not
real sure how someone's doing if it's so
interdependent until you've seen
them perform with multiple teams,
you need to see them in multiple
environments before you can reliably say
they are the reason these
teams are succeeding.
And then finally, increasingly we
get some performance measures that
analytics is helping with this.
That assess an individual's
impact on a team.
So there have been some studies recently,
for example, in network analytics,
where you can find,
who team members go to for
support, who team members go to for
advice.
So even if they don't show up as stars
to those who are evaluating them,
if you look at the actual
behavior of the team members
you can suss out who's making
the biggest contribution.
Techniques like that are gonna help
us get a better and better lens
on where that individual contribution is,
parsing it from the interdependence.